=head1 NAME

ldm - Lightweight Device Mounter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

I<ldm> [-d] [-u I<user>] [-p I<path>] [-c I<command>] [-m I<mask>] [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ldm is a lightweight device mounter following the UNIX philosophy written in C and based on udev and libmount.
The user can use B<umount> to unmount the device or B<ldmc> with the B<-r> switch.
The daemon can be controlled with the B<ldmc> tool.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d>

Run ldm as a daemon.

=item B<-u> I<user>

Specify the user who owns the mountpoints.

=item B<-p> I<path>

Specify the base folder for the mount points. The default is /mnt.

=item B<-m> I<fmask>,I<dmask>

Specify the fmask and dmask for the mounted devices in octal or symbolic format (eg. the octal mask
0777 is represented as rwxrwxrwx).

If only the I<fmask> is specified then its used as umask and it's
value is used as dmask too.

=item B<-c> I<command>

Specifies a command that is executed after a successful mount/unmount action. The following environment variables are defined :

=over

=item B<LDM_MOUNTPOINT>

The complete path to the mountpoint.

=item B<LDM_NODE>

The path pointing to the device node in /dev

=item B<LDM_FS>

The filesystem on the mounted device.

=item B<LDM_ACTION>

The action ldm has just performed, it can either be I<mount> or I<unmount>

=back

=item B<-h>

Print a brief help and exit.

=back

=head1 BLACKLISTING

ldm doesn't offer any blacklisting by itself but it honors the options found in the fstab so it will ignore any device with flag I<noauto>.

=head1 INSTALL

The included systemd service expects a config file at /etc/ldm.conf similar to this: 

=begin man

.sp
.RS 4
.nf
.BB lightgray
MOUNT_OWNER=\fIusername\fR
BASE_MOUNTPOINT=\fI/mnt\fR
.EB lightgray
.fi
.RE

=end man

=begin html

<pre>
<code>
MOUNT_OWNER=<i>username</i>
BASE_MOUNTPOINT=<i>/mnt</i>
</code>
</pre>

=end html

=head1 SEE ALSO

ldmc(1), umount(8)

=head1 WWW

L<git repository|https://github.com/LemonBoy/ldm>

=head1 AUTHOR

2011-2015 (C) The Lemon Man <thatlemon@gmail.com>
