=head1 NAME

ldm - Lightweight Device Mounter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

I<ldm> [-d] [-r I<device>] [-g I<gid>] [-u I<uid>] [-p I<path>] [-c I<command>] [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ldm is a lightweight device mounter following the UNIX philosophy written in C and based on udev and libmount.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-d> 

Run ldm as a daemon.

=item B<-r> I<device>

Ask the ldm daemon to unmount the selected device.

=item B<-g> I<gid>

Specify the gid of the user owning the mount points.

=item B<-u> I<uid>

Specify the uid of the user owning the mount points.

=item B<-p> I<path>

Specify the base folder for the mount points. The default is /mnt.

=item B<-c> I<command>

Specifies a command that is executed after a successful mount/unmount action. The following environment variables are defined :

=over

=item B<LDM_MOUNTPOINT>

The complete path to the mountpoint.

=item B<LDM_NODE>

The path pointing to the device node in /dev

=item B<LDM_ACTION>

The action ldm has just performed, it can either be I<mount> or I<unmount>

=item B<LDM_FILESYSTEM>

The filesystem on the device

=back

=item B<-h>

Print a brief help and exit.

=back

=head1 BLACKLISTING

ldm doesn't offer any blacklisting by itself but it honors the options found in the fstab so it will ignore any device with flag I<noauto>.

=head1 INSTALL

The included systemd service expects a config file at /etc/ldm.conf which contains your user uid and gid. Don't be scared, it's just a matter of writing down 3 lines using your favourite editor.

=begin man

.sp
.RS 4
.nf
.BB lightgray
USER_GID = \fIgid\fR
USER_UID = \fIuid\fR
BASE_MOUNTPOINT = \fI/mnt\fR
.EB lightgray
.fi
.RE

=end man

=begin html

<code>
USER_GID = <i>gid</i></br>
USER_UID = <i>uid</i></br>
</code>

=end html

=head1 WWW

L<git repository|https://github.com/LemonBoy/ldm>

=head1 AUTHOR

2011-2014 (C) The Lemon Man <thatlemon@gmail.com>
